Sir, do you understand this translation? This means move to a new window?
Yes, probably.
Okay. Sir, where is the, is it an extended left?
Okay, we're going to the right. Yes.
Okay.
I'm going to share my
I'm going to go to the scenes, sorry, to share the screen.
Where is the second one?
At the window, sorry.
This one?
You have to
this one.
And you can maybe just click
this one maybe. No, no.
Ah, this one.
Now, close this window because in the Plenaria
This one?
Where is my image?
And the Plenaria thing was the whole
whole sounding
by when I receive an image.
Okay.
Do we need to leave?
This one?
Yes.
Okay.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I need to get back to this.
Okay, this one?
Yes.
I think the click is sort of massively delayed right now.
I promise I can fix it.
Yes.
Okay.
No.
Okay, cool.
Oh, we're not sharing it?
Okay.
Okay, so we're sharing the desktop?
Yes.
Okay.
This is yours.
Yes.
Okay.
For our English speakers.
The translation.
Okay.
It's late at night.
So maybe transport is a bit busy.
Go for the
for the
Okay, so
good afternoon everyone.
It's a pleasure for me to present our last
at not least Plenaria speaker
of the
Congress.
Working right now.
The
policy in the United Kingdom.
She is
PSD in statistical psychometrics
in
University of
Austria.
In the
University of
London, I guess.
She's also a founder of the
She's going to
present us
What's new with
tinymobiles?
Publicatory mic check.
Does that sound good?
Excellent.
Well, thank you very much for the
introduction and thanks to the whole
organizing team for having me.
I'm delighted to be here.
Yes, I do
work on the tinymobiles team and
this is
what I'm going to be talking about.
I
am a statistician by training.
Now my title is software
engineer and I'm going to be walking
down the line between
math and machine learning
and software engineering in
this talk as well.
And once you leave academia
you get the joy of presenting work
that you haven't done.
I've done some of the work
that you saw, but
this is work by the tinymobiles
team and these are the
organisms. So a lot of the work
has been done by these three
guys alongside me.
This is Anil.
This is Max, our available speaker.
This is Simon.
You will see their names scattered
throughout the talk.
Before we jump
into what is new
with tinymobiles, I'm
going to give us at least one slide
to say what is tinymobiles.
So it is
the framework for
statistical modeling and machine
learning in R.
And it is a framework that
uses tinyverse principles. So the
same ideas
that
have been used in tinyverse
are now being learned and used
in design ideas of how
functions
should work, how you should be able to
interact with them.
All of these things that have made the tinyverse
popular are the same design
ideas that we try
to apply to
what I consider the heart
of our modeling statistics.
It's still sort of like
the crafting base.
And
essentially if you
feel at home with the tinyverse,
you should feel at home with tinymobiles
as well.
And when I got
asked to talk about what is new,
the usual interpretation of
what is new is
what is new and has been
released.
And I'm going to be talking about this,
but I'm going to be talking about this
more
briefly than the second part
here, which is what is new and in
progress. So you're getting a little bit of
work in progress.
And part of the reason
why I've decided to
keep new and released
a little bit more contained here is
that we
most of these big releases
of the year happened in the first half of
the year, and then we talked about them
in various places.
Amongst them,
PositCons in August,
and the talk videos
from PositCons are now online since last
week. So they're all on YouTube,
including ours. We had a session
of tinymodels talks
with plenty of others,
and I do believe that
the quality of these talks
at PositCons was really good.
So if you're curious, I
encourage you to go check out those videos,
and I'll give you
sort of like a pull-out,
a tinymodels session.
In a minute, you can decide whether
that's of your interest or if you want to
try some other ones.
So
the thing that probably
took the longest out of these releases
is adding support
for timed event data to
the entire framework.
So timed event data,
as the name suggests,
has like two
aspects of it. The timed
event and the event itself.
And that event may or may not
have happened yet when you're like,
but I don't want to analyze stuff.
If it hasn't happened,
that's a censored observation.
It's not a missing observation. It's incomplete.
But you still want to make use
of that data.
So
for the stats people in the room,
it's pretty obvious that the methodology
to deal with both
an outcome that has
two aspects, and there's
something involved. This methodology
is survival analysis.
For people who are not so familiar with
this, the name survival
analysis usually does something
that's a circle like medical
research and that's not applicable to
me. And I've been trying to tell
people this year in particular
that it's timed event
data and then methodology
for that. And that event can be really
a lot of things. Yes, it can be data
in a medical context, but it can also
be like time until
your pet gets adopted in the shelter.
So pretty broad applications
and
we've wired
our support for it throughout the framework
with
its own mode,
regression,
and I got to talk
about
the general why
and what
in more of an introductory
talk
on data and models.
And then that's it.
A follow up talk right after me
talking about how to measure
predictive performance for these types
of models.
So if that is data you may
encounter and you want to use
tiny models, these are the two talks to check out.
My colleague Simon
talked about a very different topic.
He talked about fair machine
learning.
And the tiny models does include
several metrics
for fair machine learning.
And there isn't like one
silver bullet, one metric
that answers all your questions
because
there just isn't one. So we also
did not try to implement one.
But rather
Simon and other colleagues at Posit
spent
almost a year, I think, sort of catching up on
literature on other
implementations and then deciding on
what to implement for tiny models.
And they've chosen it
to have metrics that
support you when you're thinking about
a problem rather than
presenting you a
too easy and not
real solution.
And he does a really nice job in situating
that research
and questions
in his talk on fair machine learning.
And last
but not least
is Emile's work
on making
predictions happen in databases.
So if you're working
in a context where you make
AI a model and you have
loads of data in your database,
it's nice
to not have to pull that data
into R to make a prediction and then
write it in R, but that you can
do it in your database first.
And that is
what the tiny predict package
was doing, but it was doing it
for a personal model.
So in the easy
case, if you have a linear
model, you know your coefficients, you can
write a SQL or other
expression that
multiplies your vector coefficients
with your predictor values, and you
get your prediction.
And that can happen on a database.
But that wasn't including
any of the preprocessing.
And Emile has gone through the work of
trying to make this work for
tiny models of workflows
so the objects can include preprocessing
and the fitted model.
The package is called
Orbital if you want to check
it out, and the talk is also
linked in the slides. My slides are
online. I'm not sure if you can read
it, but they're on my GitHub.
You know, get my GitHub profile.
It's just a trick.
I'm sure you'll find it, but
it's sort of the retro 2024
dash 3 RPR.
So that is what
we've been working on earlier in the
year. That is our
desktop videos and blog posts and whatnot.
If any of this
catches your fancy, go check it out.
And I'm
going to very smoothly segue
into the new
vision in progress. Some things get
a lot more...
less polished. Let's put it that way.
And the
first thing I want to talk about in that
moment where we're actively working on
things is the topic of
post-processing.
And I've decided to slap the
subtitle on. That's what
you do after you've done fitting your model.
And you do it to your model predictions, not
to your data.
The reason usually
being you're trying to squeeze a little bit
more performance out of it, trying to make
the predictions better after you
figure out how to make the predictions.
But let's look at an example.
So I brought some delivery
data. That's just how long it takes
to get something delivered.
Since I talked about censored data earlier,
this is all uncensored.
This is the actual time until the event.
Just looking at the time now, we're keeping
things easy in this example.
So time to
delivery is our response. We've got
a couple of predictors. We're doing
the usual tiny models thing
where we split it and try to do testing.
And we're also preparing
something for 10-fold cross-validation.
And then
we're going to pick a model, and I'm going to
deliberately make the model really
bad to show you why
you might want to test your predictions.
So this is a
boosted tree
with a glorious number
of three trees. So you're
not going to get something very
performant, but you get a model.
We're not doing any pre-processing
on the predictors. We are just showing it straight.
We're going to resample
that model, put it on the
10-fold cross-validation.
We're going to get some metrics
out of that, and we are going to
save those predictions.
We have metrics, so we might as well look at them.
And we get
an R-squared
of like 0.8
something, which is not too terrible.
But as always,
you've got to remember what
your metric is actually measuring.
And R-squared makes the correlation.
It doesn't tell you
how close your prediction
is to your observed value.
That is a different topic. It's calibration.
Why not look at it as a thought?
This is done
with the probably package.
You can see
that for
higher actual observed values,
the model
quite severely under-predicts
them.
This is not a new model.
I mean, deliberately so, but
if you're trying your hardest to get a good model
and that's your result,
things are challenging.
And one of the things that
you can do with this is calibration,
and that's what we're going to be doing.
Generally, why would you want
to do any of the post-processing?
Usually the motivation
is to get better
predictions out of it
with sort of adding a
hit-stack, and calibration is another model
on top of that.
Or sometimes you simply want to
better satisfy
distributional limitations.
You might have a range that
your predictions can't be outside of,
something similar.
And currently,
you can
do that, and things keep moving from it.
It is not necessarily the
immediate way.
You can just do straight-up
decline manipulations
on it, if you're just
thresholding predictive
probabilities into hard classes
with something other than 0.5.
Or you could use the PROBABLY package
which has calibration compliments
in it, from America.
That is all okay,
but what we are
now doing is integrating it
into the workflows objects.
So a workflow
in kaiju models is the thing
that contains, currently,
your pre-processing
instructions
and your model instructions.
The idea being that putting them together
makes it easy to cross-validate
them together, and you're not
creating
data that you can pre-process.
Now we are adding
post-processing
to go into that object,
so that you can
fit the whole thing.
Do fit-me samples
on the whole thing.
We have a new
package on the block
for that kind of stuff.
Meet Taylor.
So,
the Taylor package is the thing
that connects
stuff in PROBABLY
and DeFi, so to say,
with the workflow.
If you think of recipes
for pre-processing,
think of Taylor
for post-processing.
That's the mental model
that we're borrowing from.
If you have one for recipes,
you're a good bit of the way there
for Taylor.
Similarities
and differences in that mental model.
Recipes
works on the training data
because we're doing pre-processing.
Taylor works on the model predictions
because we're doing post-processing.
But you both
initialize an object
for recipes and services,
and then you add
more specifications
to it. Steps to do.
Recipe steps.
And in Taylor, those steps
are adjustments to do.
And then you sort of have
not only the nature's fault.
There's nothing more, just dead space.
And then you have a part where you
estimate something.
And then the part where you
execute some things, often
false predict. And there are false fit
and predict for Taylor.
I assume you're
somewhat familiar with recipes, so
that is the
corresponding parts to practice it.
I think those are
harder to learn than fit and predict.
But that is
a very brief intro
to Taylor.
And let's use it.
Let's use it in the workbook.
We need to call library
Taylor. Nothing happens with that.
But then
we can make a Taylor object.
We initialize it with call to Taylor
like we would with recipe.
Recipe. Brackets up
and close. And then we're
adding the additional
instructions of what to do with our model
predictions. In this case
here, I'm adding an adjustment that
is a numeric calibration.
So that's off the
wall predictions.
You're going to get calibrated.
And
we have this Taylor object
that I knew would have a recipe object.
And like we would
add a recipe to a
workflow with the add recipe function,
there is now also a
add Taylor function.
So
hopefully all of your
intimidations that you've
built up with tiny models already
are working and
you can be like, yeah, I'm mapping this knowledge
to a new part.
So we can
add the Taylor here. And now we have
a workflow that has instructions
for pre-processing, for the model fit,
and for post-processing.
And then we can send that thing through
fit resamples, like we
did before. The only
thing that's changed here is the object
that goes into it.
We're still saving the predictions
so that I can do the original
plot.
And you can see, still
not perfect, but we're
getting closer to that diagonal line.
Still struggling with
predictions for large
observed values,
but we're getting
it.
So
success.
I
think this is work in progress, so let's talk
about what it can do and what
it can't do yet.
So what is implemented
in Taylor as options
for post-processing
is
what we expect to be
the
most useful and commonly
requested ones.
So if you
have something that you need that's not
on this list, I will show the site
where to get the feedback. Let us know.
But we're hoping we're covering a lot of
bases with this already.
You can calibrate
probabilities. You
can
either pick a different threshold
or use equivocal signs
if you're turning your probabilities
into hard class predictions.
And for numeric outcomes,
you can calibrate them
or tweak the range.
And
we have implemented both
Taylor itself.
There's support for it in
workflows, so that you can say
add Taylor.
And as you've seen,
fit with samples and tune works
with this already.
And then there's like this unassuming line
of support for our sample
for sundry samples.
That concerns calibration. So calibration
essentially fits another model
on your model predictions
as an input
and your true
outcome as an outcome.
And if you fit yet another
model,
you want fresh
data, unseen data.
You don't
want to risk overfitting
by just adding a model on top of a model
on top of a model
and fine tuning too much
on each range of data. So what
happens underneath the hood is
that we hold back some of your
training data for calibration
if you have told us in your
specification that that is what you want
to be doing.
And how we do that
is implemented in our sample
and we have that for
cross-validation
and booster
samples and
there are some more to go
including temporal
datasets.
And
yeah, sort of
that is part
of what's yet to come.
And
the other thing that we still need
to wire up in this
is that you can
tune with all
of TUNE and not just say fit pre-samples
but you could say TUNE
on a workflow that has pre-processing
on specification and
pre-processing info.
And if you
care about this topic
and want to give us feedback
that is very welcome.
The best place to do this is
by issues
on GitHub on
the Taylor repository.
So in the tidy models
or on GitHub is the Taylor repository
if you've got issues
leave us your feedback there.
Um
yeah
so that is one
thing that is work in progress
that is in the pipeline.
It's not too far off I would say
and we're
just going to move
a little further.
The other topic that's
sort of hooking in the tidy models section
is support
for sparsity
in a better way than currently.
What I
call sparse tables
and
um
sparse data in the wild
would be
something you encounter
if you have
categorical predictors with a lot
of categories and you turn those into
indicators or you
tokenize text or you have a graph
data set. You can easily
end up with
a lot of variables
and then a lot of zeros
in them. So like the
information in your data
is pretty sparse
in that context. And people
often shorten it down to like
sparse data. So that's
where the slogan or the name
comes from. And having a
lot of data
with a lot of zeros
instead of like
going from one column of
a categorical
variable to like multiple,
multiple columns
can sometimes be a challenge in two terms.
One, memory
allocation. Your data set
is already big and then you can like turn one
column into many, many.
That's not always
easy. And the other thing
is speed.
Because you need to work with
each other.
And
the way that this is typically addressed is
a different data
representation.
Different to
what? Is a solid question.
So the fault
is called a dense representation.
We have a vector like this
and we store all
of the 25 values.
That's a dense representation.
I don't need
you to count the zeros, but you probably
have spotted
the non-zero values because they're
only two.
So if we don't want to store
all 25 of them,
because these two are the things that really
interest us, we can
try to switch to
a sparse representation.
And we only need five of these for that.
So we need to remember how long
that vector is.
So that's one for the 25.
We need to
save the locations
for the non-zero values.
That's another two here.
And we need to save those non-zero values
themselves.
So another two.
But I'm five versus the 25.
And whether that's an interesting loop
depends on how sparse your data is.
There isn't like, this is always better.
I think we all know that's no free lunch,
right?
There is a little bit of a trade-off,
but if you are in a situation
where you do encounter a lot of zeros, it's interesting.
In
this complete layer, in R,
we're implementing stuff.
This is called matrix
packet, with a capital M,
that implements sparse matrices
and
sparse vectors
in efficient matrix operations for this.
So we're addressing both the memory
return and the speed.
And you can make a sparse vector.
I made the one
that I just showed you,
with the 25 values and two non-zeros.
Again,
even a great method looks pretty sparse,
right?
And
matrices
are
good
when you're really close
to knowing if it's
a model, when you
actually have a model matrix.
And
the
efficient matrix
operations are for that.
But that's pretty late in the game.
Usually when you have
a data,
you have it in a data frame
for a good reason, because you have
often different types of data, right?
So
there's a little bit of a hiccup
in using the matrix
package directly in
the high-resonance framework.
So if you give us
such a matrix to go fit
the model, we can take it and pass
it on to the modeling function. We're not crunching
it, it's fine. That is what is there already.
But we have a slight problem
trying to stick sparsity
into tuples.
I feel like in these sort of things
it's always good to remember,
what are you trying to do, what are you trying
not to do, and why?
And the best place to start is
why. So
let's pull back for a moment and
talk about what
we would really like to have here.
Simple one,
if you have
something that isn't a sparse data format,
we would like to preserve that
throughout the framework.
If you run into something that's
concave or sparse data,
they will materialize and fall
back to the bench representation.
We want to preserve it
and
we want to preserve it across the framework.
And the thing that carries
data across IE models
is a tuple.
That's where my interest for
putting a sparse vector into
a tuple comes from.
The other thing we would
like to have
is to be able to
make use of sparsity
where it makes sense.
Maybe if you're
turning your categorical variable
into a lot of
indicator variables, you want to
make use of them and you want to make sparse
indicator variables.
That's where we would like to be able to
add sparsity.
But note that this
is
sparsity on a prediction of
or in terms of objects,
we want actually sparse
vectors and we
want them in a tuple.
And
the last one is
kind of casual, like we want to make things
easy.
Sounds great, but it really
is like a fundamental idea of
all of
models. The idea of always being
not
easy for easy, say, but
rather if you're dealing with compressed problems,
we
don't want you to spend all
your energy and making capability
on the
technical bits of handling sparsity.
We want you to be
able to rely on value models for that
and keep your focus on the
actual modeling.
So that's why this matters.
And
we want you to not sit
like, as a small example, we don't
want you to be like, oh, but I actually
don't need all of the rows and the
fills of this.
Will it break sparsity
if I take out some rows
because it's not going to change anything?
You just want to be able
to say dply or mutator
or dply or filter.
You do probably. We certainly
do.
That is a long-winded way of
saying why
do you really want
sparse vectors in a
tuple? Not all of them have
to be sparse, but we want to be able to have
some vectors to be sparse.
And
as you saw, unfortunately
we can't just straight up
stick sparse vectors
from the matrix, capital M,
package into a tuple.
For technical reasons, I'm not going
to dive into,
but you're going to be like,
welcome sparse vectors.
So
that is another moment of
what are we doing, what are we not
doing? So sparse vectors
is not intended as a
replacement for the matrix package.
It is our way to have
sparse vectors that we can
stick into tuples
and we're not aiming to
implement any of the efficient
matrix operations that the matrix
package has. So if that's
what you're interested in, then
go to the
matrix package for matrix operations.
That said,
sparse vectors is
its own package,
and if that sounds interesting to you,
you can go use it.
We won't use it, or we are
using it in tidy models, but it's its own thing
and you can use it in other
contexts if that fits to you.
So it
allows us to do that thing that I was
after, put sparse vectors
into tuples,
and because we want to be able
to talk with the rest of the world, also
it has fast conversion methods
to go from a tuple
with a sparse vector in it to
formats of
the capital and the matrix package
so that you can then
send that to
a model fitting function, for example.
Okay,
I said work in progress,
I said some stuff's implemented,
some stuff's not, so let's get to that part.
Implemented already
in recipes
is that
the server of everything in recipes,
the recipe function itself,
knows what to do with this
and doesn't just smash it first
and then materialize it.
So that will
pass through.
That will pass through.
It will also pass through prep and bake.
Parsing's fitXY function
also does not
store its sparsity,
neither does predict.
And in workflows,
fit and predict also
leave us alone.
Which is really nice.
But obviously,
what's not happening?
So there's currently
Well,
I could say a caveat, but
really it's like the area where the work
is at right now
are the recipe steps.
So,
whether
a step touches a sparse
predictor,
it may or may not be sparse at least.
So for some steps,
that's just
inherent to what you do. Like if you're
sticking a vector into a PCA,
you're not having something sparse there.
And you will not
But if you're doing sort of like the
indicator variables,
or other things where it might
make sense to keep sparsity,
the goal is to preserve that.
And some of them work already and some of them don't.
So whether or not
the data
set that you get found at the end of
your recipe preprocessing is
still sparse
has the answer. It depends. And it depends
on what kind of steps you're doing.
And then,
there is
one thing that some people want to
do, and some people are skeptical about,
which is why I put a big
baby on this.
So if you want to use a formula
interface, which is lovely,
which is a great thing about R,
and in
tidy models, that is
sort of called fit
on a participant model,
or if you
invoke that by app, using app
formulas as the
preprocessor in your workflow,
then you're down on code
paths that will eventually lead you
to model.matrix from base R.
And that one
uses dense data.
And
unless we
write something that
replaces model.matrix,
that will
be the case.
So maybe
we will have this in special cases.
It will, I'm pretty
sure it will not be a
it will always work kind of
situation because of the nature
of things.
But I don't want to send you
off to the side like,
it's not going to happen.
This
is very much a work in progress.
But we are pretty excited
about this because of the
possibilities that this opens up
for sparsity in
preprocessing
maybe.
So far, sparsity
is mainly relevant for model
fitting, and now
there's more happening
on the preprocessing side.
So we don't quite
know yet where that will lead us, but we're pretty excited
to find out.
This is the feedback side.
If you have feedback on sparsity
in general, and sparse vectors
in particular,
put the issue
with the sparse vectors
repository. That is not
under tidy models, that is under
Erlang.
Presumably if you search it, you'll find it.
If you have
feedback on sparsity
in context,
go to the corresponding
repository, so if it's sparsity
in preprocessing, go to
this. Leave us a note
with a key in here.
And
now we have
post-processing
sparsity
tables. And I brought you a third
one because fleeting is fun, right?
And that
third one
is better errors.
Not quite as big and flashy
as the other topics,
but more like the bread and
butter of things.
And
sometimes
you notice.
Usually
when you run into an error,
it's not the best moment in your life.
And
recipes
used to be
pretty tricky.
So you
write your beautiful recipe.
You try to fit your
workflow. You get an
error. You're like, okay, fine.
I know my debugging strategies. I'm going to
bake that data set. First,
I'm going to bake it.
Remove the complexity of the work.
And then you try to prep it
and you still get an error.
Hopefully the error
tells you something useful. So here
it says a column already
compounds new level. So new level
is like, oh, yeah, I did something
and you can look for that
step.
And
I know that people have been
devising a debugging
strategy where they'll comment in and
out of steps to
narrow it down. That is a good
strategy, but wouldn't
it be lovely if this thing just told
you which step the problem is at?
And that is
what it does now.
And, you know, it's not a new
feature, although that one is so
helpful. You could somewhat argue
it's a new feature, but often
the error messages
are not the thing that you can
write
a lovely blog post about.
We do write about them, but they're sort of slotted
into things.
And I've decided
to
put a little bit of a
variation on the keynote
topics then, usually.
So I have given you
an exciting work in progress.
But I also
want to talk about the other
work that we do.
And it doesn't always result
in extremely helpful
error changes
that you can change.
So this is a little bit of a
how we work
kind of section
of this talk.
And we typically
call this type of work upkeep.
It is largely
the same as maintenance
work, but not
in the sense of somebody else changes their
package and breaks your manual
update stuff. That falls
into upkeep as well.
But upkeep also
is the idea that we
make an effort
to regularly touch
our packages,
because
we have quite
a few of them, and sometimes
you don't do new feature work on it for
two years, and then you get
a bug report, and you're
like, why did it fix that?
You open up the code base, and you're like, ooh,
we are doing things differently now.
And it's just,
it's not because you wrote bad
code in the past. It's just because
the world around it has moved on.
And so
we try to touch things
regularly. And if you're writing your own
packages, you don't
have to look after
the amount of packages a week. You just have
to be busy and do a lot
of different things. You also might
not get to touch your package every
week. So
the idea here is
to show you what kind of tools
we use to both
provide users
with helpful errors,
and to do that in a way
that lets us still stay
on top of things, to not
accumulate the biggest maintenance
burden in all of this.
So
I hope that's an interesting
variation on the new inflection
and work in progress.
So what makes
an error helpful?
And I think you do need
to tell your users what happened.
That's like the basic.
It'd be good to know
where it happened.
And the hard question
is like,
why did it happen? And you can't always
use it as an error message, but you
can sometimes be
pointing them in the
right direction. And
sometimes you can
also point them
even further in the right direction
by giving them like
hints to further places to look at things,
or if it's like
a clearly typical mistake, you can
be like, did you mean to do this
instead?
With moderation. Don't be
quick. But
sometimes that's helpful. So
how do we do that
kind of stuff? And I do hope
you can read some of it.
Otherwise, I'm going to be
beating out a lot of holes.
How's that working?
Sort of? Okay, cool. Excellent.
So I brought in
a small function. I'm going to use
speed here so I can see this a bit
better.
It has nothing to do with timing models.
This is just
not overload your brain with statistics.
This is just about when it's time to
water your plant. And
that plant should be straight.
Otherwise, it's going to error.
Because all you do later is
paste the string
into the text and be like,
I'll get it. That plant doesn't
need to be watered yet. But you don't want to see
that plant. You want to see the specific
one.
But if you use
that with a number, it's
going to error.
Plant must be a string.
Okay, fair. The thing we have
done so far to
try to be helpful is put
backticks on this here.
Just to indicate that that's the argument.
And that's
the thing where you might want to pull up
this documentation and be like, what was that?
Why does this not work?
So that's very minimal
stuff, but it helps.
But as a maintainer,
you have to remember to put
those backticks there. And you have to
remember that backticks are the thing
how to format arguments.
Or...
Oh, I highlighted
this. Okay. Or...
you switch from an
R-line abort statement, which is our version
of, like, baseline stop.
That's the thing
that throws a turn. You can
switch to CLI abort.
And CLI does a
lot of things. Here, it
just does the styling. Not that
exciting, especially if it's just a few
backticks. But the point being,
these are all small changes
and they add up.
I'm going to show you a few more things about what
CLI can do.
But
amongst other things, it can do a lot of different
styling parts. And you just
have to remember
to put the right tag,
which is often easier than you'll remember
to consistently apply format
yourself.
So the user list
doesn't change.
And that's a good thing.
This just makes your own life easier.
And I said I'd show
some more things that CLI can do.
I'm
going to change that message
that you get if you
succeed.
What we do in here is
apply CLI
functions across the board, including CLI
abort. So we have, like,
we're basically doing
string interpolation. We have our
string and then we inject
the value of class in there.
And then we print it out and we are
really good citizens and we're putting a new line
at the end and we have to remember to write that
new line.
If you want to do the same with CLI,
you just use CLI
text and
do string interpolation by
putting curly brackets in the value itself.
So that's kind of
like a matchup of
the glue package
and the Arlang abort.
And then it does an additional thing
because
nothing keeps you from putting several
plots in.
So it would be nice if that sentence
worked for all of them.
So what this does is, like,
it looks clever
enough to see that
plants
may have multiple values
and if it has only
one, it uses the first option
here.
It says that plant doesn't
have to be watered
like here. I'll get it.
The monstera doesn't have to be watered yet.
But if you put in
a vector of plants,
it says, I'll get it. The monstera
and that other plant
don't need to be watered
yet.
This is not ground breaking.
It's not
playing with math.
But it's pretty darn convenient.
You get to offer your users nice
English sentences without
doing all the
figuring out
whether it's plural or not and how that
pluralization should go and where it
pastes in all of the objects.
That's
pretty nice if you do this
a lot of times or if you
only do it very sporadically.
Because if you're not touching that often, you might
go through the trouble.
I feel like that is
a nice thing for someone who maintains
a package.
The result is a nice thank you
for someone who uses a package.
I said there's a bunch more formatting
options. The ones I use most regularly
are the catch-all.
Format this as code.
Format this as
a class.
Format this one as a function.
If you just give it the function name,
it will add records and
pull out semantics.
What's really cool is what happens
if you give it package name,
colon, colon,
function name.
It creates
depending on which IDE you're in,
hyperlinks
to the documentation pages.
You get an error message that might say
look at this function.
You click to get there.
Then you can do
more jazz with links.
In Parsnip,
we sometimes want people to look up
the model
specification and the object is called
model for spec.
That's okay,
but sometimes we just want to say
model specification.
The error message
makes it so that if you click on
model specification, you land there.
If you're in quarter slides,
you're not in an interactive IDE.
You don't get hyperlinks there,
but you get to see how
it looks if you're doing it
say on a console because
that's where you run your R.
Then it will add
the code that you
could run to get to the help page.
It doesn't leave you in
a bug if you don't have hyperlinks
in your thing, but if you can
have them, it will give you hyperlinks.
That's a little bit of
CLI
niceness for
the error message.
The other thing that we're
changing throughout
the framework is
to pay more attention
to
the kind of
call info that you get
when you use an error
because that tells you where.
We have
a bunch of functions that are internal.
They're not actually meant to be user
tracing.
We have others,
and then they call them, but
what happens if you call
plant hair, which then in turns
calls time to water,
is
if it throws an error,
it will show error in time to water.
Here that sort of means something,
but not all
internal functions are named
with the care that you do
for user-facing features.
Fact of life, I would say.
To then expose
your user to your internals
in an environment where they are
under great stress because they produced
an error is maybe not the moment
you want to do this.
What we would like here
is for that thing,
if you call plant care
and it throws an error,
for it to say plant care
and not be like,
tell your user to be like, sorry, where's that
coming from?
If they want to go jump into a debugger,
they still can if you're not keeping
them on it, but
a casual user
might get confused with this
and you can hide it pretty easily.
CLI abort
has a
call argument.
The nifty thing that happens here is that
in the function definition,
we say
capture the calling environment
and then pass that
to
CLI abort.
When you execute
plant care
and then you execute time to water,
time to water is
where am I being called?
Oh, I'm being called in the
context of plant care.
Capture that and then when you error
spit that one out.
So now you have the
user facing function as the function
that throws the error.
Also not
the flashiest, do you think?
But helpful.
You will see these changes
getting rolled out
across time.
We sure do have a lot of error times
so it is taking us a while.
We've been at it for a good bit
but I think we've
halfway there.
Once all of these changes
have passed,
we will get errors in this regard
as well.
I am like
at time, am I not?
Should we think?
I'm...
Well, okay.
I have two more
things to show you.
Let's do them, right?
You still awake?
You're doing better with this time than me, actually.
Okay.
So we were like
what happened, where did it happen, and now we
get into the meaty question of why.
And
this is sort of like back to the start
where we're moving the plant care
where we're just like bare bones
time to water.
It tells us it must be a
string. And it's good it tells
us what it must be
but sometimes they're like
okay, fine, I get that part
but what was it
if it wasn't a string?
I thought it would be a string.
And that's a pretty
easy way
to add that information.
It doesn't always
save a user from having to
go debug stuff more severely
but it's a nice
starting point
to get to something
like plant must be a string
not a number.
Where did the number come from?
Well in this case you can see that but sometimes
you're like
hold on, why is it that?
And the way to do this
in CLI
is to stick fonts
in curly brackets
and then have it in the
tag of
object type friendly. And what that thing
does is
evaluate what object type plant is
and then spit out
a friendly English language
description of that.
So 5
turns into a number
and it works for a multitude
of objects pretty broadly
and my
test to see how far I can stretch it
is to take
our basically hello world example
of a linear model, so yes
I put a linear model in the time to water function
and it does tell me
it must be a string not an LM object.
Good.
So that's pretty
helpful and it doesn't
take much effort to add
that.
So that's
a little bit of nudging you
giving your user a first
step on the path of like
why did it happen?
That doesn't always solve your problems but
it's a
relatively cheap and easy
way to get people
in the right direction.
Sometimes you want to
be more explicit and have more stuff to say
about how to fix a particular
problem
and you want to put that hell into
the error message
but then if you have a lot to say
you run the risk of producing
an error message
and then nobody will
read your helpful text.
It's just a long text.
But if you break it up a little bit
and give people three bullet points
your chance is much
better at reaching them.
So what CLI
and RLA errors
can do is give you bulletisms
and that happens when
you not just
give it a string
but rather a vector.
And then I say I equals
and that's sort of like an
informational bullet point down here.
It still says error
in that function and then
the error message, which I have changed
to switch things up at the last minute
and then it has like I
and it gives another hint.
And that is usually
helpful if
you want to point people to other
functions. You use the linking of our
shoulder. So where we
do this for real and not just like
picture parts,
you will see when you need to audit them,
is
a situation where this is helpful
is if you're expecting data
in a particular format,
say spatial data,
and you can leave a hint
of saying, right,
look at the help page of this particular
function to convert your object
from a regular data frame
to an SF object or something else.
We sometimes point to
other functions in the time
models ecosystem for
this.
Time to wrap it up.
I think
errors are most
helpful if they tell you what happened.
That's the error message itself
and CLI
has a bunch of options for you to add,
style in, string interpolation,
pluralization, links
and all of that jazz.
It can help
you be more direct
where an error happened.
You don't always
have to make it
just a user-facing one.
If your function does call out
different things and you
think it is helpful to know
where, we're not going
to say, oh, it's error in
tune rig, but that's a non-server
function and sometimes it might be helpful
to know if that was a pre-processing error
or a model fitting error or something else.
But it gives
you the control to
say the level of
abstraction that you're going to
give here and which call is going to show
up.
The
driving question of why does this happen?
You can help people
by not only telling them what
was supposed to happen, but also
what actually did happen.
So that was
impartial, object-friendly
and if you
have any helpful hints
to tell people, you
can add that on informational
messages or other types.
There's a bit more styling in what
the bullet points look like.
But essentially, break up your text,
add some more context
if you think it will be helpful.
And
to
my last slide,
what if you want to know the news and I'm not there
to talk to you for an hour.
Announcements about
new things go on to the
tidyverbs blog at tidyverbs.org
slash blogs.
And then our column on the web is
tidybubbles.org where we
have a collection of articles
that are more in-depth
texts about various topics
of statistics and modeling
and what you might want to know
about that in the context of
tidybubbles.
And with that,
thank you for your attention.
Thank you very much.
How is
combining languages
and translations in your
CLI
messages?
Combining translations?
What happens if you want
to have your message in both
English and Spanish
depending on the language?
That is an excellent question.
And I know that there's
a working group that tries to translate
base R errors
for new
installed R
in a different language.
I can blink on how that
translates to CLI. I'm not sure
where it does.
But there's work being done
on this very interesting area.
Maybe they haven't
converged yet, but
yeah.
So,
should I
call another question?
Okay.
It's more a
personal question
than other things that
Intel has
featured
in this area.
It's more like how
your team
in general, people that work
in this kind of huge package
that there are thousands of people
using for enterprise
or for academy or
whatever, how do you manage
to help
or take decisions
or what are you going
to do now?
What are you going to do now?
Or how do you deal with it?
How do you work?
Okay.
I'm
in a lovely situation.
Well, lovely
or not, but
our work is public.
You're not sitting
in our team. But the
vast majority of what we
do is visible on the web
in the GitLab repositories.
And
there will be explanations
about why we made a certain decision.
And the web also
has documentations for us
that you can take and apply to your own
workings. So we
have documentation online about
how we write code.
There is a document
of how we do code review,
how we discuss
changes in the code.
There is
a repository that has
documentation on the bigger decisions,
why we're going one
direction with an implementation
on another.
That was called a tidy-up.
It's sort of like a similar idea to
like a pet for
Quicken, where you say
this is our problem.
These are potential solutions.
We've gone with this one for this reason.
This other idea that sounds really good
did not work because of.
Sometimes these things
are written up after the fact,
but usually those are written up
before you make a decision to
gather feedback.
So if
you're interested in
like how
we work, look for
this kind of documentation.
It is really like the guideline
of how we do our work.
And we make it public
in case it is helpful for other people
doing their own work on
similar or a different scale.
But yes,
I know that part.
Okay.
There is now a question.
Sorry, I didn't see you.
I have a
questionable
or difficult question for you.
Do you want to start?
Okay.
What do you think about the VPN
and the
chain
or the way
of your company?
GPL licenses?
VPN.
Yes.
So
I know that
the
some packages
will license GPL.
By now,
Tinyverse packages have been relicensed
to the more permissive MIT license
with the consent
of all the people who contributed
and had a say in the whole story
for the reason of them being
more permissive.
Posit does not make any
direct money off of
our open source packages
that we provide.
And
I am not a lawyer, disclaimer
that goes with it.
The conscious choice
was to go with the MIT license.
Like a GPL license
in my understanding is that
you can use it, but if you use it, you have to
keep it under that license.
And I think that makes
sense
in many situations.
It wasn't the choice for
this.
Being
more permissive with the MIT license
for the Tinyverse
packages.
Does that
help?
Okay.
I have a question.
I'm not completely familiar with MIT planning
and the planning.
It's been a while since I've been here.
I've been here for about
10 years.
I do this every day.
I don't know what else I can tell you.
As a performer,
you know,
like
there is
not a full
feature
parity. You can do certain
things in Python, you can't do in R.
There are certain things in R you can't do
in Python.
Coming sort of from the background
of more
of a computer science approach to modeling
and more of a statistic approach to modeling.
Like something that is
bread and butter, just statisticians being able
to specify interactions
in Python, whereas
other things like
text processing has
a little bit more
functionality
in Python.
What is interesting for
your problem really depends on your problem.
I
very much think you can put R into
production.
People do it.
There is like
but
that also depends a little bit on your
definition of production.
It depends on like
what your context is. If all the
people around you are computer scientists
or general software engineers
and they don't know
what to do with R, that is hard
but not because of how R is, but because
of the context. And if they
are like, no, please use
a general purpose language like Python,
then that's a learning
center. Do that.
But it's nothing about R per se that
keeps you from it.
And
in the spirit of sharing
work in progress, the topic
of R in production is
sort of one of Hadley Wickham's
focus of that one moment. He's given
some keynotes on it and
he's working on
a book called R in
production
and several of us
are working on some more technical bits
along the way because everything
is there and sometimes it
might not be as smooth as it could
be, so we're trying to make
that experience
other than lesser a little
easier.
But it's by no means impossible.
So there will be like
technical infrastructure and social infrastructure
and how to talk about this
with like
improved packages
in a book that Hadley is writing.
So if you look for Hadley's work, R
in production is the key word.
You can follow along on that project
too.
Well, in this case,
so say
thanks to
...
see
you
...